Migrate configure section to 6 0 (#11685)
storybookjs/storybook: docs/configure/user-interface.md

| **sidebarAnimations** | Boolean       |Sidebar tree animations                                        |`true`                                          |
| **enableShortcuts**   | Boolean       |Enable/disable shortcuts                                       |`true`                                          |
| **isToolshown**       | String        |Show/hide tool bar                                             |`true`                                          |
| **theme**             | Object        |Storybook Theme, see next section                              |`undefined`                                     |
| **selectedPanel**     | String        |Id to select an addon panel                                    |`my-panel`                                      |
| **initialActive**     | String        |Select the default active tab on Mobile.                       |`'sidebar'` or `{('sidebar'|'canvas'|'addons')}`|
| **showRoots**         | Boolean       |Display the top-level grouping as a "root" in the sidebar      |`false`                                         |

### Theming

> Storybook is theme-able!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storybook is theme-able using a lightweight theming API.
```

Author: Fixed with latest commits.

#### Global theming

It's possible to theme Storybook globally.

> We've created two basic themes that look good out of the box: "normal" (a light theme) and "dark" (a dark theme). Unless you've set your preferred color scheme as dark Storybook will use the light theme as default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storybook includes two themes that look good out of the box: "normal" (a light theme) and "dark" (a dark theme). Unless you've set your preferred color scheme as dark, Storybook will use the light theme as default.
```

Author: Fixed with the latest commit.

Next paste the code below and tweak the variables.

```js
// yourTheme.js
import { create } from '@storybook/theming/create';

export default create({
  base: 'light',

  colorPrimary: 'hotpink',
  colorSecondary: 'deepskyblue',

  // UI
  appBg: 'white',
  appContentBg: 'silver',
  appBorderColor: 'grey',
  appBorderRadius: 4,

  // Typography
  fontBase: '"Open Sans", sans-serif',
  fontCode: 'monospace',

  // Text colors
  textColor: 'black',
  textInverseColor: 'rgba(255,255,255,0.9)',

  // Toolbar default and active colors
  barTextColor: 'silver',
  barSelectedColor: 'black',
  barBg: 'hotpink',

  // Form colors
  inputBg: 'white',
  inputBorder: 'silver',
  inputTextColor: 'black',
  inputBorderRadius: 4,

  brandTitle: 'My custom storybook',
  brandUrl: 'https://example.com',
  brandImage: 'https://placehold.it/350x150',
});
```

Finally, import your theme into [`.storybook/manager.js`](./overview#configure-story-rendering) and add it to your Storybook parameters.

```js
// .storybook/manager.js
import { addons } from '@storybook/addons';
import yourTheme from './yourTheme';

addons.setConfig({
  theme: yourTheme,
});
```

> The `@storybook/theming` package is built using TypeScript, so this should help create a valid theme for typescript users. The types are part of the package itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@storybook/theming` package is built using TypeScript, so this should help create a valid theme for TypeScript users. The types are part of the package itself.
```

Author: Fixed with latest commits.

### Addons and theme creation

Some addons require specific theme variables that a Storybook user must add. If you share your theme with the community, make sure to support the official API and other popular addons so your users have a consistent experience.

For example, the popular Actions addon uses [react-inspector](https://github.com/xyc/react-inspector/blob/master/src/styles/themes/chromeLight.js) which has themes of its own. Supply additional theme variables to style it like so:

```js

addonActionsTheme: {
  ...chromeLight,
  BASE_FONT_FAMILY: typography.fonts.mono,
  BASE_BACKGROUND_COLOR: 'transparent',
}
```

### Using the theme for addon authors

Reuse the theme variables above for a native Storybook developer experience. The theming engine relies on [emotion](https://emotion.sh/), a CSS-in-JS library.

```js
import { styled } from '@storybook/theming';
```

Use the theme variables in object notation:

```js
const Component = styled.div(({ theme }) => ({
  background: theme.background.app,
  width: 0,
}));
```

Or with template literals:

```js
const Component = styled.div`
  background: `${props => props.theme.background.app}`
  width: 0;
`;
```

### Storybook addons

> A key strength of Storybook is its extensibility. Storybook aims to be your tool of choice for developing components in the browser no matter what choice of UI framework your team has made. Another way that Storybook can fit your team’s development workflow is through addons that allow you to build better and more robust components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A key strength of Storybook is its extensibility. Use addons to extend and customize Storybook to fit your team’s development workflow.
```

Author: Fixed with the latest commit.

> Addons have been a part of Storybook since the very beginning and are so integral to the way Storybook works that many of the features described in this documentation are implemented as addons! These addons are installed out of the box with [essentials](../essentials). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Addons are  integral to the way Storybook works. Many of Storybook's core features are implemented as addons! These addons are installed out of the box with [essentials](../essentials). 
```

Author: Fixed with the latest commits.

#### Addon features

<div>

> todo:vet links here

Reviewer: These aren't links

Author: Fixed with the latest commits.

</div>

> The most obvious thing addons affect in Storybook is the UI of Storybook itself. Within the UI the [toolbar]() and [addons panel]() are the two chief places addons will appear. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most obvious thing addons affect in Storybook is the UI of Storybook itself. Within the UI the **toolbar** and **addons panel** are the two chief places addons will appear. 
```

Author: Fixed with latest commits.

![Storybook addons locations](./addon-locations.jpg)

Addons can also hook into the rendering of your story in the preview pane via injecting their own [decorators](../writing-stories/decorators).

Finally, addons can affect the build setup of Storybook by injecting their own webpack configuration to allow the use of other tools in Storybook. Addons that do only this are often referred to as [presets](../presets/introduction).

### Essential, core and community addons

There are many, many Storybook addons, but they can be roughly categorized into three areas:

> - Essential addons are core-team developed addons that are considered core to the out-of-the-box user experience of Storybook and thus ship by default with new Storybook installations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Essential** addons are core-team developed addons that are considered a part of the out-of-the-box user experience. These ship by default with new Storybook installations.
```

Author: Fixed with the latest commits

> - Core addons are the addons that are developed by the core team with efforts made to keep them in sync with the development of Storybook itself, and to make sure they are written in idiomatic ways as templates for other addons. They can be found within the [Storybook monorepo](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/tree/next/addons).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Core** addons are developed by the core team. They are kept in sync with the development of Storybook itself and written in idiomatic ways as templates for other addons. They can be found within the [Storybook monorepo](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/tree/next/addons).
```

Author: Fixed with the latest commits.

- Community addons are addons written by the massive Storybook community. They can be found on our [website](/addons), [GitHub](https://github.com/), and [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/).

### Sidebar & URLs

> Storybook’s sidebar lists all your stories grouped by component. When you have a lot of components you may wish to also group those components also. To do so, you can add the “/” separator to the “title” of your CSF file and Storybook will group the stories into groups based on common prefixes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storybook’s sidebar lists all your stories grouped by component. When you have a lot of components you may wish to also group those components also. To do so, you can add the `/` separator to the `title` of your CSF file and Storybook will group the stories into groups based on common prefixes:
```

Author: Fixed with the latest commit

![Storybook sidebar anatomy](./sidebar-anatomy.jpg)

> Usually it is a good idea to use a nesting scheme that mirrors the filesystem path of the components. So if you have a file `components/modals/Alert.js` you might name the CSF file `components/modals/Alert.stories.js` and title it “Components/Modals/Alert”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using a nesting scheme that mirrors the filesystem path of the components. For example, if you have a file `components/modals/Alert.js` name the CSF file `components/modals/Alert.stories.js` and title it `Components/Modals/Alert`.
```

Author: Fixed with the latest commit

#### Roots

> By default Storybook will treat your highest level of groups as “roots”--which are displayed in the UI as “sections” of the hierarchy. Lower level groups are displayed as expandable items in the hierarchy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Storybook will treat your highest level of groups as “roots”--which are displayed in the UI as “sections” of the hierarchy. Lower level groups are displayed as expandable items in the hierarchy:
```

Author: Fixed with the latest commit.

![Storybook sidebar story roots](./sidebar-roots.jpg)

> If you’d prefer all groups to be expandable, you can set the showRoots option to false in  [`./storybook/manager.js`](./overview#configure-story-rendering):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’d prefer all groups to be expandable, you can set the `showRoots` option to `false` in  [`./storybook/manager.js`](./overview#configure-story-rendering):
```

Author: Fixed with the latest commit

It is possible to manually set the id of a story, which in particular is useful if you want to rename stories without breaking permalinks. Suppose you want to change the position in the hierarchy to `OtherFoo/Bar` and the story name to `Moo`. Here's how to do that:

```js
// your-story.story.js

export default {
  title: 'OtherFoo/Bar',
  id: 'Foo/Bar', // or 'foo-bar' if you prefer
};

export const Baz = () => BarStory.bind({});
Baz.storyName = 'Moo';
```

Storybook will prioritize the `id` over the title for ID generation, if provided, and will prioritize the `story.name` over the export key for display.

### Environment variables

You can use environment variables in Storybook to change its behaviour in different “modes”.
If you supply an environment variable prefixed with `STORYBOOK_`, it will be available in `process.env`:

```sh
STORYBOOK_THEME=red STORYBOOK_DATA_KEY=12345 npm run storybook
```

Then we can access these environment variables anywhere inside our preview JavaScript code like below:

```js
console.log(process.env.STORYBOOK_THEME);
console.log(process.env.STORYBOOK_DATA_KEY);
```

> You can also access these variables in your custom head/body (see below) using the substitution `%STORYBOOK_X%`, for example: `%STORYBOOK_THEME%` will become `red`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also access these variables in your custom `<head>`/`<body>` (see below) using the substitution `%STORYBOOK_X%`, for example: `%STORYBOOK_THEME%` will become `red`.
```

Author: Fixed with the latest commit.

Next paste the code below and tweak the variables.

```js
// yourTheme.js
import { create } from '@storybook/theming/create';

export default create({
  base: 'light',

  colorPrimary: 'hotpink',
  colorSecondary: 'deepskyblue',

  // UI
  appBg: 'white',
  appContentBg: 'silver',
  appBorderColor: 'grey',
  appBorderRadius: 4,

  // Typography
  fontBase: '"Open Sans", sans-serif',
  fontCode: 'monospace',

  // Text colors
  textColor: 'black',
  textInverseColor: 'rgba(255,255,255,0.9)',

  // Toolbar default and active colors
  barTextColor: 'silver',
  barSelectedColor: 'black',
  barBg: 'hotpink',

  // Form colors
  inputBg: 'white',
  inputBorder: 'silver',
  inputTextColor: 'black',
  inputBorderRadius: 4,

  brandTitle: 'My custom storybook',
  brandUrl: 'https://example.com',
  brandImage: 'https://placehold.it/350x150',
});
```

Finally, import your theme into [`.storybook/manager.js`](./overview#configure-story-rendering) and add it to your Storybook parameters.

```js
// .storybook/manager.js
import { addons } from '@storybook/addons';
import yourTheme from './yourTheme';

addons.setConfig({
  theme: yourTheme,
});
```

> The `storybook/theming` package is built using TypeScript, so this should help create a valid theme for typescript users. The types are part of the package itself.

Reviewer 2: `@storybook/theming`?

Author: That slipped. Also in the the docs it's also referenced that way :P

#### Addon features

The most obvious thing addons affect in Storybook is the UI of Storybook itself. Within the UI the [toolbar]() and [addons panel]() are the two chief places addons will appear. 

<div style="background-color:#F8FAFC">
TODO: add image mentioned in the SB 6.0 needs to be further vetted
</div>

Addons can also hook into the rendering of your story in the preview pane via injecting their own [decorators](../writing-stories/decorators).

Finally, addons can affect the build setup of Storybook by injecting their own webpack configuration to allow the use of other tools in Storybook. Addons that do only this are often referred to as [presets](../presets/introduction).

### Essential, core and community addons

There are many, many Storybook addons, but they can be roughly categorized into three areas:

- Essential addons are core-team developed addons that are considered core to the out-of-the-box user experience of Storybook and thus ship by default with new Storybook installations.

> - Core addons are the addons that are developed by the core team with efforts made to keep them in sync with the development of Storybook itself, and to make sure they are written in idiomatic ways as templates for other addons. They can be found within the Storybook monorepo,

Reviewer 2: Link to mono repo?

Author: It's linked to the monorepo, more specifically to the addons folder to be more exact.

> - Community addons are addons written by the massive Storybook community. They can be found on our website, GitHub, and npm.

Reviewer 2: Make our website a link to /addons

Author: Link is added

### Sidebar & URLs

Storybook’s sidebar lists all your stories grouped by component. When you have a lot of components you may wish to also group those components also. To do so, you can add the “/” separator to the “title” of your CSF file and Storybook will group the stories into groups based on common prefixes:

<div style="background-color:#F8FAFC">
TODO: add image mentioned in the SB 6.0 needs to be further vetted
</div>

> Usually it is a good idea to use a nesting scheme that mirrors the filesystem path of the components. So if you have a file `components/modals/Alert.js` you might name the CSF file `components/modals/Alert.stories.js` and tile it “Components/Modals/Alert”.

Reviewer 2: "Title it"

Author: this was another that slipped "2 pairs of eyes" (pardon the bad pun) :P
